.. _How to guides:

=============
How-to guides
=============
The tools of ASR can be combined to perform complicated tasks with little
effort. Below you will find the recommended procedures to perform common
tasks within the ASR framework.

.. contents:: List of available how-to guides


How-to: Collect a tree to folders and open in browser
-----------------------------------------------------
Suppose you have a set of folders with a structure like::

  tree/A/Mn/
  tree/AB/MnI2/
  tree/*/*/
  etc.

Then collect the database with::

  $ asr run "database.fromtree tree/*/*/"

And open a local web server with::

  $ asr run "database.app database.db"

Now browse it with::

  $ firefox localhost:5000


How-to: Submit a recipe with `MyQueue`
--------------------------------------
It is also recommended to use these recipes together with the `myqueue`
job managing package. We assume that you have installed the `myqueue`-package
and are familiar with its usage. If you are not, then take a look at its excellent
documentation. To submit a job that relaxes a structure simply do::

  $ mq submit asr.relax -R 24:10h

You can also specify arguments with::

  $ mq submit "asr.relax --allow-symmetry-breaking" -R 24:10h


How-to: Generate figures from a certain recipe
----------------------------------------------

Let's assume that the bandstructure has been calculated and you want
to display the results. Then it's as simple as using the `asr results`
cli sub-command::

  $ asr results asr.bandstructure

which will save any figures generated by the webpanel associated with
`asr.bandstructure` in the current folder.


How-to: Continue working on a packaged project
----------------------------------------------

Suppose that you want to continue working on a previously packaged
project, for example, to calculate a new property. Suppose the project
is packaged as `project.db`, and that you only want to unpack the
ground state results since your new recipe does not need other results
in the database.

To unpack the project do::

  $ asr run "database.totree project.db --run --patterns results-asr.c2db.gs.json,gs.gpw"

Then perform the calculations needed in the unpacked folders. When
calculations are done package them and merge the databases::

  $ asr run "database.fromtree tree/*/*/*/"
  $ asr run "database.merge project.db database.db merged.db"

The databases have now been merged into a new database called
`merged.db`.


How-to: Save and instantiate result objects
-------------------------------------------

Here we are creating results object, converting it to a ``dict`` and
converting it back to a result object

.. code-block::

   >>> import numpy as np
   >>> from asr.core import decode_object
   >>> from asr.c2db.piezoelectrictensor import Result
   >>> result = Result.fromdata(eps_vvv=np.ones((3, 3, 3), float), eps_clamped_vvv=np.ones((3, 3, 3), float))
   >>> dct = result.format_as('dict')
   >>> result = decode_object(dct)


How-to: Select rows in database with results from specific recipe
-----------------------------------------------------------------

When a database has been collected with ``asr.database.fromtree`` it
automatically saves a special key-value-pair named as
``has_asr_recipename``. Concretely if ``asr.c2db.gs:calculate`` is
calculated for the specific row then it will have the
``has_asr_c2db_gs_calculate`` key-value-pair defined. To select all rows
where ``asr.c2db.gs@calculate`` is done then simply do

.. code-block:: console

   $ ase db database.db has_asr_c2db_gs_calculate


to select those rows.


How-to: Retrive results from database
-------------------------------------

Suppose you have a database ``database.db`` from which you want to
extract some results for further treatment. Suppose that data is the
results of the ``asr.bandstructure`` recipe. Then do

.. literalinclude:: retrieve_results_from_database.py

    
>
